AMALIA TRUE:
Three years ago, I woke up
knowing things that I shouldn't
and was declared insane.
So, yes, I keep secrets.
She's not a fool,
and she's not a fucking baker.
The attack came three years ago.
This was designed
so that we would see the parts,
not the whole.
Maladie is the worst killer
in London's history.
HORATIO COUSENS:
You know who I work with?
Is this true?
You two must be dear friends.
Or you do go back a ways.
We all do.
Its power grows by the day.
It means to destroy us.
If we've lost hope...
it already has.
PENANCE ADAIR:
I'm going to the square
to stop that hanging.
I'm going to save Maladie.
LORD GILBERT MASSEN:
If London is going
to be saved from chaos...
it needs to see chaos.
(CLAMORING)
(LAUGHS MANIACALLY)
TRUE:
I do have a mission.
I am leaving to find
the Galanthi as we've planned.
It's the first step to learning
why we were brought here
together
and what we're meant to do next.
(engine roaring)
(explosions)
(gunfire)
Cryer (on comms):
Give up your name!
Give up your
blasphemous fight
and join the FreeLife Army.
We are marauders.
We are God's Men!
What's your name, girl?
Crescent (on comms):
Second Boot, hold.
That's just a Cryer.
Byner, are we close?
Byner (on comms):
We're right on top of it.
Point of entry,
north side, 20 paces.
Crescent (on comms):
Boot, confirm entry point.
The rest, take his spot.
Cryer (on comms):
Give up your name.
Give up your
blasphemous fight
and join the FreeLife Army.
We are marauders.
We are God's Men!
Crescent (on comms):
What do you see?
Boot (on comms):
Found the point of entry.
It's a ladder.
-Can't see how far
down it goes...
-(firing, yells)
-Crescent: Boot! Go now! Move!
-Boot: Contact!
-(gunfire)
-We're taking fire.
-Multiple hostiles!
-(grunts)
(yelling, grunting)
Major:
Steady, soldier.
We kill you all,
it's gon' be slow.
Or maybe we could
talk about the prize
that brought us all here
in the first place.
(whirring)
-(thudding)
-(gasps)
(firing)
(yells, grunts)
-(yells)
-(gasps)
(retches, coughs)
Crescent (on comms):
You are now captives
of the PDC.
(distant gunfire)
(grunts)
♪
(panting)
(grunts)
(exhales)
Byner:
Oh, my blood,
there's heat.
Crescent:
Get me fuckin' light.
(doors whir open)
(door closes)
-(grunts)
-(beeps)
Air's good.
Byner, lights.
(grunts, pants)
Byner:
The whole system's gated.
Rex can't tap the O.S.
without a hard connect.
-Send little Rex.
-Major: Rex.
PDC creates A.I.,
forgets the I.
Like your systems
didn't clone our O.S.
Don't you listen to him.
You're a good bot.
You got any surprises
waiting in here?
I dearly hope so,
given the circumstances.
We were tracking the source
of the spatial anomaly,
same as you.
It was a FreeLife beacon
that tagged this place.
I don't know if they got inside.
Second Boot, tape his mouth.
-First tell me your name.
-Names are sacred, shitto.
My name is Major Joseph
Willing Greenbone,
FreeLife for life!
We do not hide from God
like you PDC dogs.
-We honor-- (grunts)
-Boot, say hello.
Boot (on comms):
We are the
Planetary Defense Coalition.
We are taking shelter here.
We've not come to fight,
but we are armed,
and will respond as greeted.
Hey. What's a Stripe
doing here alone?
-And why didn't we
read her heat?
-She possumed.
She swallowed glazers.
I watched her gurge 'em up.
-Her body temp
must've been nil.
-Shit.
(beeping, whirring)
(chimes)
You swallowed coolant pods?
(grunts softly)
The heat change'll
shred your organs
if you don't relax.
Is your stomach coated?
Pheen.
I can't give you pheen.
You'll never level
if you're zoned.
Byner:
All clear. Got a schematic.
Who's a good bot?
Anything upstairs?
Then we're alone.
Which seems wrong.
Stripe hasn't called colors.
-What's your Pride?
-Forty-first Ground,
out of Edinburgh.
No one got out of Edinburgh.
Three of us did.
The other two died
on the walk down.
Sixteenth Hailstormers,
D-field Green.
Our Stripe got taken out,
if you're mission fit.
I need to get her
regulated first.
She was possuming out there.
Also, there's a bullet
in my leg.
Sick bay's northeast quarter.
So ordered.
Boots, secure the "Major,"
and do a full sweep.
Byner and I will try to
contact Command.
I've never seen anyone possum
in this kind of cold.
I was running out of options.
Twenty FreeLife Marauders
dropped in an hour
before you did.
Twenty? Our scanners read eight.
I had an hour.
(grunts)
(groans)
-(exhales)
-Knitter: Lucky,
you being where you were.
Didn't feel that lucky.
-Pheen. Shit is weak.
-You get nothing pure.
Popping glazers?
That's not playing dead.
That's practicing.
-What's your PitSid level?
-(inhales)
Too high to make Crescent,
too high to go home.
Everyone has PitSid.
I got the most.
You get temporals? Flashbacks?
I'm not even sure this is now.
Great. You're mission fit.
You gotta jar me.
Oof.
You gonna ask me
what the mission is?
You're looking for a Galanthi.
-(clicks)
-(yells, grunts)
(cylinder whirring)
(vials clattering)
(cylinder hissing)
(grunts)
-Who are you?
-My name?
That's a little forward.
I was married for three years,
and I never told either of them.
Come on.
Fighting over a side post
in the middle of nothing
'cause you saw a...
spatial anomaly,
which means a portal,
which is how the Galanthi
came here,
I figure Command saw
the FreeLife beacon,
lost their shit.
Sent your Pride in
'cause they were close,
and 'cause you are a spore.
Can I have my pheen back?
(mouths):
Fuck.
And the term is
"empathically enhanced."
"Spore" is a little rude.
Yeah. But only a spore
would call me on it.
Why is it rude?
Don't the Galanthi
rain spores on everyone?
Make 'em all wise and adorable?
Knitter:
The spores are translators.
They activate parts of the mind
needed to comprehend Galanthi
language and tech.
Not that I can.
I've never even seen one.
But it does broaden
the perspective.
What were these guys building?
-Museum?
-When was this even from?
Well, it's late Victorian.
Maybe early 20th?
Wasn't always a soldier.
-Knitter: Are those sim-strips?
-Boatload.
Byner can go through them.
He lives in sims.
Not just the fuck-tech.
Mostly the fuck-tech.
Stripe:
Please tell me he's not virgan.
All that "flesh is evil" crap.
What is this?
Every Galanthi project is huge.
Pure water systems,
tectonic stabilizers.
This is...
None of those are happening.
FreeLife bombed every site.
Killed them.
All of 'em?
Weren't there, what,
20 Galanthi?
-How many of them
are still alive?
-Maybe one.
Maybe more.
Command didn't know
about this one.
Well, so far, neither do we.
Second Boot (screams):
Fuck! Heat!
What the fuck is that?
Get the Crescent.
-Is that the Galanthi?
-Slow.
And quiet.
You don't wanna
wake this thing up.
Damn, those kids are gray.
(power surging)
♪
-(footsteps approaching)
-Knitter: Hey, whoa, whoa.
It's just a garden.
Yeah, no, it's just something
out of a farmer's daughter's sim
sitting here in real life.
So normal and usual.
Food made out of actual food.
Nobody eat anything yet.
We got a door here.
Crescent:
Byner, what's the schematic say?
That there isn't a door here.
(clinking)
♪
(ominous music playing)
It's the science team.
FreeLife got 'em.
FreeLife don't hide their kills.
Stripe:
Or clean up after.
This shaft goes way down.
They were hiding
whatever's below us.
Another level?
Crescent:
Byner, any other doors
that shouldn't be there?
(door whirs open)
(panting)
♪
(beeps, whirs)
(grunting)
(screaming)
-Crescent: Hold.
-(device chiming)
Is-- Is that--
That's blood.
That's human blood.
-Fuck me!
-(gasping)
There's a shaft right above it.
This is why they
hung the bodies there.
-What, they were feeding it?
-Knitter: What? No.
Galanthi don't drink blood
for food.
What's it doing?
Stripe:
Pride, stay calm.
This is fat glass.
Bullets will do nothing
but bounce back.
Whoa.
(rumbling)
-(firing)
-(bullets ricocheting)
(slashing)
-(choking)
-(splashing)
Major:
Oh, I remember now.
The boys that found
this place did get in.
They didn't have the firepower
to kill a Galanthi,
so they improvised.
Lit the beacon and got clean,
in case we sent nukes.
-Just kill this shitto.
-No. We are completely
off mission here.
We were tasked to
save the Galanthi,
and you all shot at it,
and hit one of ours!
-She is not one of ours.
-Don't shrill at a superior.
-We were repelling an advance.
-Knitter: It wasn't an advance.
-It was a fucking handshake.
-Byner: Yeah,
we weren't overly briefed
-on how all this would--
-What about the blood?
-Why would the FreeLife
go to all of that--
-Torture.
(scoffs)
We saw the bodies, genius.
Not the team.
The team was
just the method.
'Cause the Galanthi
bonded with 'em.
Cared for them.
It's basic torture protocol.
You always do the family first.
I would love to know your name.
Second Boot:
How could they get information
from the Galanthi?
Oh, Dainty, torture's
not about information.
Crescent:
It's about hope.
Removing the concept of hope.
But we've done all right.
We're all running hot,
but we found the Galanthi.
And it is still alive.
Well, now, that's
actually your problem.
I called for a full incursion
the moment we met resistance.
Thanks for the intel, big mouth.
So did we. (scoffs)
Wait. Shit...
So, a full engagement
20 feet above our heads?
Nuclear bombs flying everywhere.
We'll never survive that.
Nothing will.
Unless we settle the question,
and put that poor thing
out of its misery.
Close the damn portal.
Tell the world it's over.
You'll save many lives.
Including your own.
I need to reach Command.
Is this a bribe?
You have to help me.
Don't worry, ma'am.
The Planetary Defense Coalition
is here.
(clatters)
(sighs deeply)
What'd you expect?
They were gonna lay down
their lives for something
that gives them nightmares?
-They know what's at stake.
-Stripe: Which is what, exactly?
Why'd the Major say,
"Close the portal"?
I thought they'd close
once the Galanthi get through.
Not this one.
It's stable. It's--
Command think it's what the team
were helping it build.
Reinforcements?
You think there's more comin'.
Maybe the 20 were scouts.
Maybe the Galanthi
are just getting started.
This could be where
we turn the tide.
Do the job the PDC
was formed to do.
There's still time.
Nobody has to die.
Yeah.
Feel like someone's gonna.
(keys beeping)
Scientist (over computer):
It's hard to believe
we're finally here.
Everyone appreciates
the gravity of what
this might mean. (laughs)
Okay. Almost everyone
can appreciate the gravity--
Okay!
What are you after? Huh?
Do you want to do my report?
I never expected
such playfulness.
But seriously,
the team have worked hard,
they deserve
their celebration today.
-(clicking)
-(Major grunts)
How does a free-thinking
man like yourself
get so egregiously split-tailed?
I know you wanna
walk out of here.
To where? The planet's fucked.
I don't like the Galanthi,
but we need them to survive.
What if thousands of them
come through that rift?
Millions?
What if that freak downstairs
is just a pet,
sniffing us out?
It's the Crescent's call.
He doesn't wanna make that call.
And he left you with me.
Okay, then. We move it.
Can't. The storm is bringing
a static front.
Any kinetic movement,
your muscles explode.
You know what?
You win.
-What did I win?
-Whatever you want.
Whatever's here that's
gonna make you step up
and give a shit.
We've got a great selection.
Name your poison.
Can I mix, or do I just get one?
We are this close to winning.
Not the war, but the world.
Imagine winning the planet back.
Making it livable.
Floods, famine, terra-storms.
The Galanthi can make them stop.
-Then where are they?
-(gun clacks)
The portal's stable.
Why aren't they galloping
through?
-It's probably not finished.
-Why didn't they come before?
What about
the five billion people
that your great brainosaurs
came too late to save?
-They're not gods.
-Then stop praying to 'em.
(rumbling, clinking)
Can you do one thing for me?
Can you just hope
that we make it right?
I'm not afraid to fight,
if that's what it takes.
But it has to be for a purpose.
It has to matter.
-To you.
-You don't get to ask that.
-I just did.
-No.
-(gun clacks)
-You cannot.
Twenty-eight years of slogging
through blood and shit
-and towering disappointment...
-Oh, don't war story me.
-I've been in it.
-...has buried me here,
likely forever.
And I am not gonna die
waiting on a savior.
You're just really insistent
that we have to die.
Because this close is
where we always end up.
It's where we all fold.
This close, change is too scary,
even for the people
who fight for it.
That's why FreeLife always wins.
-They don't always win.
-They own history.
One fuckin' form or another,
the man who has the club--
I've heard all of this,
and I know it's not so.
Because you are spored.
Because I was FreeLife.
Born and raised.
I've done things that
you can't imagine.
And the spores,
they didn't make me
brilliant or brainwashed.
They were a question.
And it turns out that
nothing will crack this world
harder than one gentle question.
So, yes. I hope...
for a better world.
(sighs softly)
-(beeping)
-No.
(power surging)
Fuckin' no!
(sparking)
(bot squeals)
(distant gunfire)
(distant thud)
Major:
The only way you live
is if it dies.
We have to get rid of it.
Byner:
You moron. You already did.
It's leaving!
(grunts)
There's no reinforcements!
The rift is stable,
'cause it goes the other way.
Galanthi's not getting help.
It's getting out.
Nah. Nah, that--
That feels just a bit
too convenient.
-(firing)
-(grunting)
(panting)
(rumbling)
No.
-Please, don't leave us.
-Stripe: Can we cut the power?
Rex must have tripped
the safety.
The Galanthi locked us out.
He's got enough power
now to--
to get up to the portal,
and... Aah!
Hey, can I get
a fuckin' Knitter here?
I'm bleeding out!
You were right.
It was always
gonna end like this.
-(gunshot)
-(grunts)
Crescent:
Boot! Stand the fuck down!
-Good man.
-Who's the best at
playing possum now?
She is.
(gunshots)
(grunting softly)
(grunting)
Crescent:
Stay with me.
(panting)
I don't understand.
They... They gave up.
(distant rumbling)
-They gave up on--
-Stripe: No. Shh.
-Shh.
-I'm sorry.
Stripe:
Hey. Look at me.
Hey.
-(whimpers)
-The Galanthi is going
back for help.
Believe me, okay?
I believe there's hope.
-Please hope.
-(Knitter sniffles)
(sniffles)
Do you wish to
tell me your name?
H...
♪
-(gulps)
-(bottle clatters)
(lid pops)
(clatters)
(moans softly)
♪
(energy whirring)
(uplifting music playing)
♪
(exploding)
(light classical music playing)
♪
(distant indistinct chatter)
Aren't those
sweet little things?
Varnum!
Didn't expect to
see you at this hour.
-They've got us in early
for the inventory.
-Mmm.
What are they?
French cakes.
Financiers.
Got more butter than flour.
Can you imagine?
Molly, for the shops
by the docks,
when you're done.
Here. Gert says
they're out of place.
I guess she's got a point.
Little pups among the hounds.
That's incredible.
I mean it, Molly.
-These are--
-Gert, your sign's blocking
half my doorway!
-Gert: Get away with ya!
-You could have a posh tea room.
Thomas: Oi-oi.
That one's a monster.
(laughs)
Someone cock it up, did they?
A tea room?
No, it's just a treat
for when I have a family.
You could have both.
Thomas:
See, you've gotta charge
more for bigger.
The ladies like it bigger.
(clicks tongue)
Ah, yeah.
This one knows what I mean.
Look at her, eh?
Blushing like a maid.
Gert:
We're gonna have more day-olds
tomorrow than I'd like.
Oof.
-Kicking?
-Ooh, like a musical can-can.
-You're gonna tell him yes?
-(register dings)
You'll not get
many offers as good.
-I'm not sure.
-It's Varnum
you're mooning over.
He's not got the money to marry.
-Has he even said
he would if he could?
-(bell jingles)
He's made no kind of promise.
Gert:
I like him the better for that.
You've gotta be thinking
of your future, Molly.
Your real future.
Not the one that's in your head.
Thing is, our Jenny's
coming on 12 this autumn.
And, uh, I can put her on
for no pay.
So it-it's a savings...
I understand. Yes, of course.
I could send her out
to earn instead,
but these factories...
No, of course she'll not
go to a factory.
She has to come here,
work with her mum.
The shops still need
rolls delivered.
(laughs) And I wouldn't send
Jenny 'round by the river.
I'll give you a penny
to carry 'em down.
-Married ladies need
a little pin money.
-Thank you. Yes.
Well, God makes His plans,
so here we are.
♪
Ma.
Do you remember Molly?
We're married now.
You look well, Mrs. True.
Thomas:
Well, you bothered to carry it,
so show her the cake.
-I brought you--
-Thomas: Louder.
I brought you wedding cake.
(chokes, coughs)
Thomas:
Nah.
-It's too rich.
-(coughing continues)
♪
(distant yelling)
(dog whimpers)
♪
You got better a lot
quicker the last time.
I'm fine.
Yeah. (chuckles)
You should charge more.
Since it looks like them rolls
are all you're gonna deliver.
(giggles)
I'm serious.
That's two you've lost.
-If I'm not gonna have
a namesake to take over--
-The next one will take.
-(thunder rumbles)
-(rain pattering)
(groans)
Solicitor:
I'm just so sorry
for the timing.
But with the medical bills,
him being behind on
the payments for the shop,
the flat's his mum's.
So you'll still have a place.
But Thomas' debts
are outstanding,
and you'll need
to find something...
♪
-Gert: Just dragging
your heels a bit.
-Good morning, Jenny.
-Morning.
-And here's me
dying to tell you
who I saw in the
high street yesterday.
Varnum Dale.
Varnum.
-I thought he moved away
for the promotion.
-And back for the next.
In charge of the whole office.
But he recognized me.
Can you imagine?
Pulled his carriage over.
Asked after you.
After me?
Invited us all to attend
his housewarming, sweet boy.
'Course his wife's
seven months in,
and a barren woman's bad luck
in an expectant home,
so I just thanked him for you.
That's the man
you should have gone after.
I always said.
(horse whinnies)
Man:
You in a hurry?
-Now you're being rude.
-Leave me be.
There's no real changes.
Probably just wind.
And how are you feeling?
Well enough, thank you.
We had our troubles
with your system, my girl,
but Thomas having passed,
it's a clear mercy
there were no children.
A mercy.
You're very good with her.
She's a dying woman.
I could hardly do less.
(laughs)
Don't write her off
too quickly, my dear.
She'll not rise from that bed,
but she survived an illness
that killed her son.
I know that type.
Cast iron all through.
Bury us all, more'n like.
Well, God makes His plans,
so here we are.
Sometimes it feels like
God made His plans
long before He met us.
I don't need to
charge you this time,
but, well, in the future...
♪
(baby crying)
(squeaking open)
Came out the drink.
Guys at the dock said
she works for the bakery.
Molly something.
You'll be fine here, Molly.
-(screaming)
-(slashing)
-(grunts)
-(in Stripe's voice):
Yeah, I might not.
Is this a sim?
It's gotta be FreeLife tech
'cause your temporal
sequencing's fucked.
Sarah:
Play with me.
Back you go now, Sarah.
You have been here
enough now to know the rules.
What are the fucking rules?
'Cause this "Christmas Carol"
crap is so specific
to my three-term focus.
Matron:
You will keep a civil tongue
in this house.
You will be meek
and grateful to God
that you have been delivered
from your own sinful act.
And now I know the rules.
-(thwacks)
-Orderly 1: Oi!
-Orderly 2: Hey!
-(grunts)
(inhales sharply)
-(groaning softly)
-(chains clinking)
(exhales)
Hi, Molly.
Sorry about the restraints.
They don't usually do that,
but you made a mess
of the Matron.
I never heard her wail so.
(laughs)
-I'm Sarah.
-Yeah. That's a straight play.
You can just gift
your sacred name,
'cause you're not a sim.
You're from 18-fuckity-12.
You're not mean like the others.
We become friends.
We tell each other secrets.
You know, Sarah,
a friend's the one you trust
to trust you back.
Well...
Yes. (laughs)
My carbonated fuck,
you are gray!
I don't have any secrets.
-I don't have any secrets!
-(chair slides)
(girls shushing)
I'm a Stripe.
I go, and I do.
And no one said "go."
I got no mission.
I should be dead.
Why aren't I dead?
(pants)
Why are my hands so...
tiny?
(breathing shakily)
It's all right, pet. Shh. Shh.
-(Amalia yelps)
-Shh... Shh...
Shh. It's all right.
-Shh.
-(Amalia sobbing)
-It's all right.
-(sobbing continues)
-(crunching)
-Nurse: It's how many,
the last few weeks?
Do you know what?
Some of them seem
fine at first.
Nurse 2:
Fine? Girl comes in
last night soaking wet.
Couldn't dry her off.
Toweled her for an hour.
Had to send her away,
soaking worse than
when she first came...
Fucking PitSid.
I need some pheen.
Sarah:
If you'd been outside,
you wouldn't be making fun.
Mrs. Hundley:
I highly doubt the Lord Himself
-presented to you
as a great light.
-I know what I saw.
You're an unreliable witness,
my dear.
You're in an asylum.
-So are you.
-Sarah: This is different.
He was sh-shaped like
a dragonfly.
And He came all apart like...
snow or sparks.
Mrs. Hundley:
Sparks?
Was there fire?
Or spores...?
He flew over me,
and then they come down,
and then I saw a flash.
Like an explosion,
but with no noise or smoke.
He was just gone.
Someone else will believe me.
I believe you.
I want to know
exactly how it went.
Mrs. Hundley:
A single spark can set
the whole house ablaze.
-Horatio: Mrs. True.
-Mrs. Hundley: An oil lamp can
be hidden under a proper skirt
-for just so long...
-Horatio: Mrs. Amalia True.
-Mrs. Hundley: Mr. Hundley...
-I'm Dr. Cousens.
I'm here for your
physical examination.
Amalia:
Sorry.
It's my name.
I'm not used to--
(passionate moaning)
There's another physician
making the rounds,
if you'd prefer a white doctor.
No! No. That's not--
Yes. Hi, Dr. Cousens,
it's Molly.
Just Molly.
Let's do this.
You seem to have
avoided infection,
despite the Thames'
best efforts.
Believe it or not,
I've been in worse.
-Are you from America?
-South-coast Canada.
Or... Yes. Or no, I'm...
(with British accent):
a baker.
I see.
Are you in any pain?
(in Stripe's voice):
I'm weak.
Has there been anything
about a light
in the sky, from the day
I ended up here?
Someone saw, or in the news?
Is that why you went
in the river?
-A light?
-No, I think it's
why I came out.
Has anyone been, uh... better?
Smart, or...
compassionate, or...
(distant rattling)
You know what? Never mind.
I sound like I belong
in this place.
(distant screaming,
commotion)
-(screams)
-(slashes)
They took my babies!
I have a baby every day
and they take it!
-(slashes)
-(yells)
-(screaming)
-Nurse: You're just
making it worse!
-Back to the cellar for you!
-Aah! No, no, no!
No! (screaming)
I've done this before.
-I can tell.
-No.
No. I...
-(door closes)
-No, I saw it
the day I came here.
I thought it was a sim...
-mptom.
-It's all right.
I'm gonna sew you up.
I just need a nurse to...
(faint whirring)
Please.
(energy humming)
It's a lot to take in.
No. No, no.
Aliens from the future
gave us magic powers.
It was staring me in the face.
Well, you've seen ailments
you can't explain
last few weeks, yeah?
Here in the ward, yes.
But I'm not...
Insane?
A woman.
Well, there's gotta be more.
The spores don't affect
everyone they hit.
I never understood why.
But they don't normally
cause random powers.
There's a pattern I'm missing.
Wish they'd let us
read the papers.
Why are you telling me
all of this?
-I trust you.
-Why?
-Did... did you see
something in--
-No. No. I...
Should I trust you?
Do you think I'm insane?
Maybe.
Maybe your alien was.
They were torturing it.
I don't know if
this is good news.
But you were right.
People are hiding it,
but it's all over.
Amalia:
No one's spored,
empathically enhanced.
There's no one
here to guide us.
To say here's what
needs to change.
Or... What?
-Fuck you.
-No, I'm--
No, I... Fuck you.
I was a mistake.
A mean joke. I'm a Stripe.
I'm not good.
I've got issues you literally
don't have names for yet.
I might be why
the spores were shit.
-You know what's coming.
And you care.
-I did my time!
I spent a lifetime fighting
and it didn't make any...
Why would it put me in this?
Yeah, this doughy little frame.
It's perfect.
I got world-class tits,
but I can't see over a chair.
It's a...
...good frame.
And nobody was using it.
I gotta get out of this place.
Then you might not want
to say "fuck" quite so often.
And give me back my morphine.
Fuck!
Lester says just a few weeks.
I do feel so much better.
I miss his cooking, though.
A man who cooks.
(in British accent):
A man... who cooks.
He said the light might
have been a German balloon.
A zeppelin.
He doesn't know
what's going on about God.
How He's gonna
give us a mission.
(in Stripe's voice):
You didn't say anything,
did you?
About us, or the mission?
You don't have to ask me that.
You're the one I trust
to trust me back.
Dr. Hague:
Ladies!
I'm Dr. Hague.
I've been hearing about you two.
Which one is Amelia?
Amalia. Molly.
Then you must be Sarah.
(laughs softly)
What, uh...
(with British accent):
What have you been hearing?
Well, first of all,
that you two may be among
the-- the Touched.
That's what they're calling
these people who've...
blossomed these
last few months.
"Touched."
They called me that already.
(laughs)
I'll tell you what, Sarah,
I'm looking for someone
to do a special study with
at my facility.
I'd like to spend a minute
with each of you.
One on one.
Can you give me a minute
-with Amel-- Amalia?
-(chuckles)
And then you and I
can have our own little chat?
(footsteps departing)
They tell me that
you can see the future.
No, I... feel it.
Suddenly. Like I'm falling down.
But I'm not.
And then later, I do.
Once, I smelled oat cakes,
and we had them that night.
I don't like to think
about it too much.
It hurts a little.
I wouldn't want to study it.
It's not a volunteer study.
Tell me...
about the lights.
Sorry?
Dr. Hague:
The lights in the sky.
When you were admitted.
I didn't see any lights.
I was...
Well, I fell in the river.
I jumped, I guess.
I don't remember.
(imitates British accent):
Huh. Can that really be true?
-The Matron said you were
very outspoken about--
-It was Sarah.
She was terribly upset. She...
said she saw God in the sky,
and no one would believe her.
I lied. Because, well,
she wouldn't stop crying, and...
Well, she never let it go,
and I couldn't tell her
that I...
When the weird things happened,
she said it was proof that
there was a "mission"?
Please don't tell Matron
what I did.
I just wanted Sarah to be happy.
To have something to...
She thinks she's getting better.
(clicks tongue)
No.
What's going on?
(in Stripe's voice):
Tell him what you saw.
He's going to help.
♪
-(in British accent):
What a to do.
-What a to do.
What a to do to die today.
Amalia:
And sip.
Mmm. Delicious.
-Loud.
That's right, gently.
-Noisy.
Lovely.
Mrs. Hundley (speaking slowly):
Loud noisy girls...
-Girls...
Mrs. Hundley:
Return to the bowl.
Take your napkin, and dab.
Corners of the mouth,
very lady-like.
And thank your hostess.
Lovely.
-(panting)
-Amalia: Now remember,
this is not what this is for.
♪
(grunting)
(panting)
♪
(exhales)
Amalia?
The board will see you now.
(distant wailing)
Lavinia:
(clears throat)
The review board said
your release hearing
was exemplary.
That you are motivated,
articulate,
that you take care
of the other inmates,
and in terms of the Touched,
you, and I quote,
"practically run the place."
There is also
an impassioned
recommendation
from Dr. Cousens.
Although he is
not a psychiatrist.
-Why are you here, Mrs.--
-Bidlow. Miss.
The voice is good.
No trace of the butcher's
widow to be found.
It's as if it were another life.
They did find
a cache of weapons
under the floorboards
beneath your bed,
during your hearing.
You grab the spoon
after they've set aside
your dishes.
A sharpened spoon,
that's your first step
to freedom.
Unless they find it.
You had every reason
to expect a positive
outcome from the hearing.
I had no reason to expect
a positive outcome.
Because of your "turn"?
Did you see
the coming rejection?
I "practically run the place."
For free.
If you have any head
for numbers, you can do
the lack of maths.
I have an extraordinary
head for numbers.
I also know that people
will often do
everything in their power
to keep from getting
the thing they want.
I suspect you could've been
miles from here months ago.
And where would I go?
That is why I am here.
What do you think?
I think I am starting to like
this body after all.
Oh, the place.
It's dreary as fuck.
And it's definitely filled
with the angry ghosts
-of murdered children.
-Hmm.
Miss Bidlow give you
any new names?
Possible charges?
Some Irish girl.
I think she builds things.
Not Patience,
but something weird.
Sadness O'Religionface.
I don't know.
God, I hope she drinks.
I thought you were
boasting before.
But you might actually be
the worst person for this job.
No, I'm gonna be great.
Gonna bring us all
harmony and peace.
-(yells)
-(loud thud)
(commotion, grunting)
-Annie: Penance said
this was the easy way!
-(yelling)
Augie:
Bertie Blair told me
all the soldiers
would be deployed elsewhere!
Horatio:
Augustus! Leave the drilling!
-(drill powers off)
-True!
Sorry, sorry, sorry!
-(grunts)
-(indistinct shouting)
Aah!
Annie:
They're backing off!
If we can't get down there
you need...
Augie (yelling):
Amalia!
(crumbling)
(coughing)
(panting)
(coughs)
(rocks crumbling)
Horatio!
(breathing heavily)
♪
(exhales sharply)
All this time, you're still
in the fucking ceiling.
-(thuds)
-(grunts)
(energy humming)
So now what?
(exhales)
I told everyone you were
going to save them.
Save the world.
That you're... hope.
But you're not.
Not for Lucy. Not for Mary.
And Sarah?
(scoffs)
What a team, you and me,
except no you.
No wisdom. No plan.
Just people to leave behind
over and over and...
I'm doing it now.
I left Penance because
you said, "Find me."
I left my heart to come
talk to you. Talk to me!
Why are you hiding?
Why did it go so wrong?
Was it me?
Did my... wreck of a brain
cause all this shit?
I can't think what else to...
I woke up in this world,
in this body that
I can't fit into. Who...
Who is this? Who the fuck am I?
You should have brought Knitter.
She believed.
And I took that from her.
She died in despair. My despair.
It should have been
anyone else.
Someone not broken.
Someone... taller.
(cracking, rumbling)
(chatter, laughter)
(gunfire)
-(thuds)
-(grunts)
(soft laughter)
Sarah:
Molly...
♪
-(sobbing)
-(screaming)
Amalia:
Are you upset that I...
Are you upset that I told you?
-What?
-Is it too much too soon?
-No.
-(bottle clatters)
No.
It is upsetting.
The future being
so grim for everyone.
But we'll just change it all up.
You make it sound so simple.
Penance:
No. It's work.
It's a life's work.
Like as not to drive us mad,
or get us killed.
And we'll never know
if we'd done enough,
or done it right.
But what in the world's
as rare and nourishing
as a life's work?
As I see it, God gave me a gift.
And by way of recompense...
He's given me another.
Any idea what we do next?
Declan:
You wanted a war, love.
Man:
Yes, I know what happened.
-Dr. Hague: Did you think...
-Woman:
...you were the only one
who hitched a ride?
(growling)
(gun cocks)
-(fires)
-(exploding)
-(rumbling)
-(grunts)
Myrtle:
Oh, Amalia...
This is a long time
from that little cave.
This...
I will need you to forget.
(exploding)
(thuds)
(grunts)
(panting)
(distant running footsteps)
(growling)
Oh, that part's now.
-(thwacks)
-(grunts)
(grunts)
(fires)
(firing)
-(door bangs shut)
-(whirring)
(gun cocks, fires)
(energy whirring)
(rumbling)
(grunting)
(panting)
♪
(cawing)
(men grunting)
♪
(indistinct chatter)
Go all right?
You?
Uh, it was a riot.
-Horatio:
Slowly, slowly.
-Aneel: Harriet!
Horatio:
Slowly, slowly, slowly, slowly.
Aneel:
Harriet! I'm, I'm...
so sorry.
We didn't save Maladie.
I'm glad you tried.
It was the right call.
I didn't find out
who our enemy is.
But you found something out.
(exhales)
It's time to tell them.
Everything.
The future. The Galanthi.
-The fight that's coming.
-Feels right.
-It's coming soon.
-I know.
(sighs)
My name is Zephyr.
Zephyr Alexis Navine.
Well, I'm very pleased
to meet ya.
Me, too.
(distant whirring)
(firing)
Fuckin' prototype.
(lively music playing)
♪
ASYLUM ATTENDANT:
Came out the creek.
I'm so relieved
the audience will now know
all of the... (LAUGHS)
...story of Amalia.
-Molly something.
-(SCOFFS)
You'll be fine here, Molly.
-(METALLIC CLANG)
-(YELLING)
(GRUNTS) Yeah, I might not.
Now everything will be
out in the open.
♪ (SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING) ♪
(SPACESHIP ENGINES WHOOSHING)
JANE ESPENSON: We always wanted
episode six to start
with a jarring image
of a spaceship in outer space
kind of thing.
This is where the story started.
In the future,
there is this altar,
and it starts there.
So, this is, sort of, everybody
catching up to that place
where the narrative
actually began.
(GASPING)
JANE: We meet Stripe,
who is the character
who goes on to become
Amalia True.
LAURA DONNELLY:
When we first meet her,
she is fighting
for the survival
of the human race.
All of the dreadful ways
that we have been treating
our planet and treating
each other have all come
to bear.
JANE: There is a war
over the prospect
of a helpful alien species,
who is going to come save
mankind from itself,
and which many people don't want
help from them.
My name is
Major Joseph Willing Greenbone.
Free Life for life.
We do not hide from God
like you PDC dogs. We are--
(GRUNTS)
In the first chapter, we meet
the Free Life Army and the PDC.
And Stripe is a soldier
who's fought probably most
of her professional career
for the PDC.
I've never seen anyone pass 'em
in this kind of cold.
I was running out of options.
Twenty Free-Life marauders
dropped in
an hour before you did.
Our scanners read eight.
I had an hour. (SIGHS)
CLAUDIA BLACK: Stripe,
she's such a survivor,
and she's pretty wrecked.
She's a professional
life soldier, you know?
She has just fought...
for what she's hoped has been
the right side of history.
And so, there's this real,
inherent tension in Stripe,
and we meet her at a really
sort of fateful point
in her experience.
Stripe's team, the PDC,
are there to try and protect
the Galanthi,
and so much life has been lost
in the process over the years
that they've almost
all forgotten
what they're fighting for.
PDC SOLDIER: Hold!
Fuck me!
CLAUDIA: The Galanthi,
as we come to know them,
have come, obviously,
to help us,
to try and wake us up
and help us understand
what's at stake.
And they've been trying
to communicate with us,
and the PDC's job is to try
and protect them at all costs.
Everyone appreciates the gravity
of what this might be.  (LAUGHS)
JANE: The Galanthi is
a highly evolved, benevolent,
intelligent, emotional alien.
It has found
a particularly difficult species
to help elevate.
I never expected
such playfulness.
(DEVICE BEEPING)
JOHNNY HAN: The Galanthi design
really just starts
from sketches on paper.
With three words,
it was... uh...
elephant, octopus, T. Rex.
♪ (ELECTRONIC MUSIC PLAYING) ♪
JOHNNY:
The wiseness of an elephant
and-- and that-- that great,
like, tough gray, leathery skin.
But then, we wanted
the alien-esque qualities
of an octopus,
where, like, light can
translucently pass through it.
The T. Rex part was to give him
an assertive attitude as well.
If provoked, it can be scary.
-(DEVICE BEEPING)
-No.
CLAUDIA: It seems to be
towards the end of the chapter
that, in fact,
this particular Galanthi
is wanting to go home
through the portal,
and it may very well
close over once it's gone.
NITTA:
Can you do one thing for me?
Can you just hope
that we make it right?
CLAUDIA: Stripe gets to a point
at the end of this chapter
where she's pretty much
been convinced by Nitta
to have hope,
and Nitta is shockingly killed.
In that moment, Stripe says,
"That's it! I'm finished."
(CANISTER CLANGS)
CLAUDIA:
In an extraordinary turn
in the storytelling...
Stripe is essentially
the origin soul
of who we know as Amalia.
Aren't those sweet
little things? (CHUCKLES)
Varnum, I didn't expect
to see you at this hour.
♪ (GENTLE PIANO MUSIC PLAYING) ♪
LAURA: Molly the baker
has all of the positivity
and hope of youth, and, um...
she can see a nice life
for herself going forward.
But as time goes on, it doesn't
work out so well for her.
Well, God makes his plans,
so here we are.
CLAUDIA: It's
a really interesting statement
about these three iterations
of who we know as Amalia's soul.
You know, we-- we try so hard
when we're traumatized to adapt,
but so much of it becomes
our identity.
♪ (MUSIC CONTINUES) ♪
CLAUDIA: And, you know,
Molly has such a--
a tragic experience
in her lifetime
and has such limited choices
that she takes the same road
that Stripe does and,
in these
extraordinary moments,
you know, timing-wise,
ends up being saved
just as the Galanthi are--
are making their appearance.
And it is who
we come to know as Amalia
who is dragged out of the river
and brought to the asylum.
(SNIFFS)
(SIGHS)
Hi, Molly.
AMY MANSON: I had such fun
with Sarah. I really did.
CAMERA ASSISTANT:
Forty-nine, Charlie, take three,
A and B marker. (CLICKS)
It was so lovely for us, like,
to-- to be able to kind of...
have fun. (CHUCKLES)
Because all-- all the scenes
pre-that, you know,
the Maladie and Amalia,
are so weighted
with so much backstory,
and the backstory's there.
It's like
we'd done all the work,
and we were able
to sit in it and enjoy it.
You're the one I trust
to trust me back.
That was also quite
refreshing... (LAUGHS)
...and enjoyable.
Can you give me a minute
with Amel-- Amalia?
-(LAUGHS)
-And then, you and I can have
our own little chat.
♪ (MUSIC CONTINUES) ♪
DENIS O'HARE: What I love
about  The Nevers
is that every character
has their own agenda.
And those agendas might overlap,
and they might, uh, align
for a while.
What's going on?
Tell him what you saw.
It's going to help.
(BREATH WAVERS)
DENIS: And so, Amalia's needs
and mission at that point
necessitated her
betraying Sarah.
So, Amalia is somebody
we ultimately root for
because we see her flaws,
and we see her struggles, and--
It's-- She's not
a happy character.
She's not a character
who's at peace with herself.
She's a tortured character.
And I think that is fascinating.
♪ (ORCHESTRAL MUSIC PLAYING) ♪
JANE: We have
a wonderfully flawed heroine
in Amalia,
and letting her be flawed
is one of the things, I think,
that makes the show
so powerful and so innovative
and so unusual.
You said you were my friend!
I'm sorry.
I didn't have a choice.
(FLAMES CRACKLING)
JANE:
We've had a lot of anti-heroes.
We've had a lot
of really flawed heroes,
a lot of heroes who are dealing
with trauma.
But they often aren't dealing
with the really unattractive
aspects of trauma,
and we let Amalia go there
at times.
(SOBBING)
I'm not good!
I've got issues you literally
don't have names for yet!
You know what's coming,
and you care.
I did my time!
And I think
that's really important.
LAURA: As these first
six episodes go through,
I think she is learning
what she's supposed to be doing
with this mission
that she figures
she's been given,
but she really is quite lost,
I think.
At the same time, she knows
enough to know that, um,
that the Galanthi is where her--
her hope should lie as well.
(SINGING)
LAURA: The thing
that really sets that in motion,
first of all, of course, is--
is hearing Mary's song.
And then, the next thing
that happens is
that she's able to find out
what Mary's song meant,
which is a message
from the Galanthi.
And in that moment,
she decides to go and try
and find the Galanthi to find
out what she needs to know next.
Talk to me!
Why did it go so wrong?
LAURA: What we're just seeing
by the time we get
to episode six
is the end of the beginning
for Amalia.
And everything
that she does from here
is kind of where
she's been supposed to be.
My name is Zephyr Alexis Navine.
Well,
I'm very pleased to meet you.
LAURA:
She knows enough, I think,
to be able to move forward
and to accept, I think,
to a degree where she is now
in her own story,
where she is in this world
that's she found herself.
She certainly doesn't have
all of the answers.
She's got a few more answers
than she had before. (LAUGHS)
SPEAKER: Did you think
you were the only one
who hitched a ride?
-(CLAMORING)
-(BOOM)
♪ (MUSIC CONCLUDES) ♪